CS 421: Students are performing better currently than in the past — 
struggling with the course

[Post] In the past, peers were offered a retake opportunity capped at 80% for 
one of the midterms. A student asked if this would be offered this semester but 
professor Gunter said no. How are students doing so well? Is this just a skill 
issue? Does anyone have suggestions to do well on the final?

I find some of the MPs extremely difficult relative to the level at which content 
is discussed in lecture. Implementing components of the MPs in an exam time 
constraint seems to be via brute force memorization. The 3 exams are worth 45% 
total with a 35% final. I am in fear for my grade and my ability to pass. I find 
the content interesting and I see the value in functional programming.

[Professor Response] Elsa Gunter: No, there is no retake this semester. It was 
not in the policy and not expected. In recent past semesters after the third 
midterm, 25% or more of the class were expected to fail based on calculations. 
While some are on track to fail this semester, the percentage is way lower than 
in the last four semesters. With a bit of focused effort and attending office 
hours, all but about one percent should be able to pass.

[Comment] thethinginthenight (Grad): With the MPs, the big hurdle is learning 
to read the rules (CPS transformation, type judgements, unification, semantics). 
The slides contained this information but were hard to interpret on their own. 
Still, all of the MPs gave you all of the test cases and many provided ways to 
interactively test your code. The expectation for exams was not that you memorized 
code from the MPs — the important skill is being able to translate a mathematical 
representation of some aspect of a programming language into code. The class feels 
different from a lot of other CS courses because much of the work is just mechanical 
application of rules. To prepare for the final, review what the rules are and how 
you can represent them in code. For previous exams it helped to redo some of the MP 
problems from scratch.

[Comment] margaretmfleck (CS faculty): "Expect" in this context refers to a 
prediction based on performance so far, not what the instructor wants to happen. 
It's quite late in the term, so every instructor teaching a course of significant 
size has students they expect to fail. There's always someone who has turned in 
almost none of the work but mysteriously decided to stay in the course rather than 
dropping. When a course is running smoothly, a significant percentage of actual 
failures involve outside factors, sometimes too big to address within the context 
of a single term.