CS Major Do Nots That I Wish I Knew as a Freshman

[Post] I just graduated from UIUC CS this May and finally got settled into my 
new grad job. Here's a list of stuff you should avoid in your time studying CS 
here that I wish I knew as a freshman:

1. It's important to gain specialized domain knowledge through your electives, 
but that doesn't mean you need to explore every possible area. I used to sample 
classes across all domains (Databases, Systems, AI/ML, Full Stack) thinking it 
would give me a broad foundation. While it did expose me to a lot, I ended up 
spreading myself too thin and didn't develop real expertise in any area. My 
perspective shifted during my last internship where I worked on a tough networking 
project. If you liked something, just dive deeper into it. Trust your gut.

2. Don't cheat on your coding assignments. I have been part of course staff for 
core CS classes that see upto 3 digit violations in any given semester. It's not 
a good feeling. It puts a shadow over any other efforts you may have made. 
Controlling your AI usage will also help you learn more while not getting caught.

3. Learn how to explain concepts, not just code. You can get exposed to this 
outside of class in many ways — become a CA for a class you really liked, join 
a consulting club doing tech stuff, or take on a research role. In an age where 
AI will squeeze the headcount for entry level engineering roles, this will only 
get more important.

4. You only get a limited number of chances. The job market is tough and will 
probably stay like this. You only get so many shots at your dream job. Make sure 
you prep in advance. A lot of people start to prep for interviews once they get 
it, but for many top companies with less defined question banks this doesn't work. 
Just because it worked at Meta or Amazon and you were able to memorize their bank 
of leetcode questions doesn't mean that prep works everywhere.

5. Avoid unhealthy comparisons. UIUC CS has a large student body and naturally 
some students will end up in more prestigious roles than others. It's easy to fall 
into the trap of comparison, but it's important to stay optimistic and trust that 
your own opportunities will come in time. I've seen students graduate in three 
years and land roles at Google or Citadel, and others that are equally capable 
take five years to complete a 4+1 BS-MCS program and go to work at Deloitte or 
KPMG as tech consultants. Don't be too hard on yourself. Polish your resume, 
build meaningful projects, and keep preparing.

6. Be nice. You are only here for a few years, but this industry is smaller than 
it looks. Being good to your MP partner or discussion groupmate is honestly 
something nobody should have to tell you, but we live in an era where everything 
is turned into a race to the top. Being a pure CS major doesn't make you superior 
to someone pursuing a CS+X program.

[Comment] Hoggyawesome365: Even more than all of these pieces of advice, PLEASE 
do the proficiency test for CS 124. You REALLY want to if you have any coding 
experience coming into college at all. You will thank me later.

[Comment] delphi_ote: Point 5 is VITAL.