To CS Alumni: What Are Some of the Most Useful CS Classes at UIUC?

[Post] What CS classes, especially upper level ones, that you took are the 
most useful in your job?

[Comment] aw10365 (CompE '23): Definitely CS 425 and CS 411. Also CS 440 
but depends on the job.

[Comment] Ruffgenius (Alumnus): Unironically, ECE 391. I'm not going to flex 
on the 341 but that class made me love systems programming from a kernel 
building perspective.

[Comment] Yaan_: Even if you don't go into systems programming, I think it's 
really good to get comfortable and get some experience with programming at a 
very low level.

[Comment] sk_dastaan: CS 425 hands down. It's definitely on the harder side, 
especially if you take it for 4 credits. Homeworks and MPs really take 
understanding and time, but really teach you a lot.

[Comment] AMonsterr (CS '22): CS 411 Database Systems may be one of the most 
applicable and useful CS classes available. I highly recommend it and professor 
Abdu is great. If you intend to pursue software engineering or anything data 
related it is a must take.

[Comment] TaigasPantsu (Alumnus): For the life of me I don't know why database 
classes weren't required. Illinois CS is too theoretical and not practical 
enough. I've never used any 300 or 400 level class in my career. The most 
useful class was CS125, Introduction to Programming. I will point out that I 
never took CS411 and there have been times in my career I wish I had.

[Comment] Sonicninja (Certified Piazza Chaotic Good): CS 438 taught me so 
much about so many different things about technical communications networking. 
Difficult, definitely not a throwaway, but worth it.

[Comment] jo_ker528: CS 425 Distributed Systems covers the most applicable 
parts of computer networking and you will almost certainly find its way in 
your job as a software developer. Also very useful if you ever come across a 
system design interview. CS 411 Database Systems — every software developer 
will need to work with databases at one point and this class fully prepares 
you, introducing technologies like SQL, MongoDB, Neo4j. CS 374 Algorithms — 
although this class is hard, it changes the way you think as a computer 
scientist. I have used it in my projects and internships to more efficiently 
design code, and it is also very useful for technical coding interviews. 
Honorable mentions: CS 341/340 and CS 437.

[Comment] Joe_Early_MD: CS 411 was great but crams in too many databases. 
Could spend a semester on each but definitely came out of it better on db. 
Professor Chang may use a lot of beer and bar references in his examples but 
otherwise great guy.