Reflections from a Senior in CS

[Post] Thought I'd make some closing thoughts on the CS experience at UIUC 
for future/current students.

1. Figure out what the goal of college is for you — to get a job, to get into 
academia, to strengthen your knowledge in CS, to go out to bars and make 
friends, or a combination. This will save you lots of time when making 
decisions. Should you work all night to bump that MP from 85 to a 95, or 
would you rather go to parties with your friends? Would you sacrifice your 
grades to make new friends and gain leadership experience in RSOs? If you 
know your goal, it is relatively simple to make these decisions.

2. You don't need to know exactly what you want to do within CS, but do not 
let that be an excuse to do nothing. Don't know if you want to do machine 
learning, cybersecurity, backend, ui/ux, frontend, product management, or 
leadership? Doesn't matter. Choose something and dive deep into it. If you 
like it, great! If not, move on to the next thing.

3. Being kind gets you further than being smart. I'm not saying being 
technically competent isn't important. But DO NOT BURN BRIDGES. BE KIND TO 
EVERYONE. This is especially valuable for freshmen. People who are just kind 
and get along with everyone tend to do better in life.

4. If you want to go into further education, do research. Have connections 
with some faculty/professors. You cannot get into most masters programs 
without some academic letters of rec. I graduated with a very high GPA but 
didn't apply to a single masters program because I had no connections in the 
university.

5. Almost everyone around you is cheating. It is pretty wild how UIUC is 
ranked so highly with a huge proportion of students cheating in classes like 
Data Structures and Systems Prog. If your goal is to just explore CS topics 
and expand your knowledge, this wouldn't bother you. However, if your goal 
is to land a high paying job or get into higher education, it will definitely 
bother you that others are taking easy routes to potentially take your spot. 
My best advice is to either ignore the issue or join them.

6. Go out more. Make deep, real connections with people as well as some 
not-so-deep friendships. Make mistakes, make dumb decisions. Messing up now 
is way better than messing up in the real world.

[Comment] versaceblues (Physics): Agree with everything except number 5. 
Don't cheat. It doesn't matter if everyone else is doing it. You will be 
much more likely to land a high paying job if you devote time to working on 
projects that you care about and building real skills.

[Comment] geoffreychallen (I Teach CS 124): Just don't cheat. Your education 
is expensive and valuable. So is everyone else's. If you're struggling, reach 
out for help — we have so many resources here to support your success.

[Comment] Focused_Meandering: Part of the reason why we're so highly ranked 
is due to how high our research output is. If you're a current student and 
are interested, you should check out research job boards and cold-email 
professors conducting research in a field you are interested in. If you 
didn't get an internship this summer, it can be a great way to learn new 
skills, find new interests, and make it more likely you get an internship 
next summer.

[Comment] No-Boysenberry-4183 (reply): Start using LinkedIn asap. Write 
projects, go to all the career fairs even if they are getting smaller and 
smaller every year. And pray to be lucky. The market is tough.

[Comment] ACM recommendation: ACM is really big at UIUC. You can join some 
SIGs and vibe with some incredibly smart people, or run an event like 
Reflections/Projections or HackIllinois. Disruption Lab (DLab) is an 
academic unit in the college of business but mostly consists of CS students 
— pretty cool because you get staffed on a project where you build something 
with emerging tech. Hack4Impact builds software for NGOs. Women in CS is a 
wholesome community. Other CS-adjacent orgs include Founders, Cube, OTCR, 
and the Coffee Club.

[Comment] jeffgerickson: Being inspired by other people's work is not 
cheating as long as you are learning from it, understanding, and applying 
it yourself — and citing it correctly.

[Comment] lsr-Indii (Fighting Illini): The atmosphere around Academic 
Integrity at UIUC compared to my undergrad at A&M is vastly different. A&M 
had entire webpages and a freshman lecture or two devoted to the honor code. 
ECE here barely mentions it in a slide in 110 or 120. At UIUC the entire 
thing seems more of like a DADT arrangement. The pervasiveness of cheating 
here doesn't dovetail with the reputation this school has.